Daily Crunch: At WWDC, Apple unveils two new laptops, a new OS, the M2 chip and more
To get a roundup of TechCrunch’s biggest and most important stories delivered to your inbox every day at 3 p.m. PDT, subscribe here.Today is Monday, June 6, 2022, and in case you didn’t know, it is also Apple’s WWDC conference, which is what Haje and our other colleagues are focused on today, so you get me solo. See all the tidbits and trappings by these excellent writers below. Also, Lucas’s and Anita’s newsletter featuring “the arrest heard ’round the crypto world” is one you must check out. Lastly, we give you five reasons you won’t want to miss the TC Sessions: Climate, kicking off next week, so get your ticket today. — ChristineThere’s not a day that goes by where we don’t hear of a new cybersecurity threat or hack, so it’s no surprise that companies like AppOmni continue to rake in big bucks to help solve the problem — in this case vulnerabilities in SaaS app stacks.Another company conjuring up some capital is Magical, which is out to prove that robotic process automation isn’t ready for consolidation, and there are still a few rabbits left to pull out of its hat.Over in software, Alex writes that software startups have some things to be happy about, even in this venture capital slowdown.  Would you like some more? Happy to comply:Image Credits: Gandee Vasan (opens in a new window) / Getty ImagesImage Credits: Gandee Vasan (opens in a new window) / Getty ImagesIn a world where ideas are cheap, it’s not hard to be labeled a “copycat” if your product is even within a country mile of your competitor’s domain, no matter the value you provide.“It always stings to hear a prospect say, ‘Oh you’re like a cheaper/newer version of [your biggest competitor].’ It stings even more when you know you have a superior product,” writes Sachin Gupta, the CEO and co-founder of HackerEarth.Drawing from his own experience, Gupta explains three ways founders can set their company and product apart:Fighting the ‘copycat’ stigma in SaaS: 3 tricks that work(TechCrunch+ is our membership program, which helps founders and startup teams get ahead. You can sign up here.)