Max Q: Suit yourself
Hello and welcome back to Max Q. In this issue:Don’t forget to sign up to get the free newsletter version of Max Q delivered to your inbox.Say goodbye to stuffy, hulking, 40-year-old spacesuits. Keeping step with a larger trend of turning to private industry for space services, NASA announced last Wednesday that it has contracted Axiom Space and Collins Aerospace for next-gen spacesuits and spacewalk systems for astronauts working outside the International Space Station. The total value of the contracts comes in at $3.5 billion.Notably, the two companies will own the suits and “are encouraged to explore other non-NASA commercial applications for data and technologies they co-develop with NASA,” the agency said in a statement. This is in line with NASA positioning itself as one of many customers in a new, burgeoning market for space products and capabilities.If all goes to plan, the new suits will be used by astronauts under the Artemis program, an ambitious series of planned missions by the agency to return humans to the moon for the first time since the Apollo era. NASA has for years been trying — and failing — to update the astronaut spacesuits and spacewalking suits, so turning to private industry is not entirely unexpected.“History will be made with these suits,” Vanessa Wyche, NASA’s director of the Johnson Space Center, declared during a media briefing, referring to the agency’s intention to send the first person of color and first woman to the moon under the Artemis program.An artist’s rendering of astronauts be-decked in next-gen suits. Image Credits: NASA (opens in a new window)An artist’s rendering of astronauts be-decked in next-gen suits. Image Credits: NASA (opens in a new window)My face, when I learned that the FAA delayed the environmental review of Starbase yet AGAIN. Image Credits: Know Your Meme/Nintendo (opens in a new window)My face, when I learned that the FAA delayed the environmental review of Starbase yet AGAIN. Image Credits: Know Your Meme/Nintendo (opens in a new window)NASA’s Hubble Telescope caught a glimpse of the star cluster Liller 1, shown here in red. It’s 30,000 light-years from Earth, which the agency said “is neighborly in cosmic terms.” Gulp. Image Credits: NASA (opens in a new window)NASA’s Hubble Telescope caught a glimpse of the star cluster Liller 1, shown here in red. It’s 30,000 light-years from Earth, which the agency said “is neighborly in cosmic terms.” Gulp. Image Credits: NASA (opens in a new window)Max Q is brought to you by me, Aria Alamalhodaei. If you enjoy reading Max Q, consider forwarding it to a friend. 