Learn how to reduce your cloud computing carbon footprint at TC Sessions: Climate with Platform.sh
We’re closing in on our first climate-tech conference. TC Sessions: Climate and the Extreme Tech Challenge 2022 Global Finals kicks off on June 14 in Berkeley, California. Founders, CEOs, VCs, scientists, policymakers and developers on the forefront of fighting climate change will be there. Will you?Buy your pass today and avoid the price hike at the door.Here’s just one example of the leaders you’ll get to hear, learn from and connect with at the conference. Check the event agenda to see the others, including Bill Gates and U.S. Department of Energy secretary Jennifer Granholm.Fred Plais, a TC Sessions: Climate partner, is also the co-founder and CEO of Platform.sh. He’s conducting a breakout session called Reducing Your Cloud Computing Climate Impact. It’s a vital topic since, according to an IDC forecast, adopting cloud computing could reduce carbon emissions to the tune of 1 billion metric tons by 2024.Clearly, deploying to the cloud is a better choice for the climate, but you can further reduce your emissions by taking a couple of key steps, and Plais will lay them out in his session. You’ll learn more about how the tech community is helping to mitigate climate change and walk away with a simple strategy to reduce your carbon footprint in the cloud.Plais, a serial entrepreneur, has been building and running digital products and teams since 2000. He’s passionate about startups and about building and managing international teams and impactful projects.Learn more about our other breakout sessions and the early-stage startups exhibiting at the show — be sure to go meet and greet them.TC Sessions: Climate 2022 takes place on June 14 in Berkeley, California (with an online day June 16). Knowledge and opportunities await you — don’t waste another second to buy your pass!Is your company interested in sponsoring or exhibiting at TC Sessions Climate 2022? Contact our sponsorship sales team by filling out this form. 


 